AI #2359: Add Actor (`Consumer ID` and `Principal ID`) columns to `Cost and Usage` dataset (#2360)
FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec: specification/datasets/cost_and_usage/columns/principalid.md

## Requirements

PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following requirements:

* PrincipalId MUST be of type String.
* PrincipalId MUST conform to [StringHandling](#attributes.stringhandling) requirements.
* PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following nullability requirements:
  * PrincipalId MUST be null when a *charge* is not associated with a *principal*.
  * PrincipalId MUST NOT be null when a *charge* is associated with a *principal*.
* When PrincipalId is not null, PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following requirements:

>   * PrincipalId MUST be a unique identifier within the service provider.

Reviewer: ### F-002 — error — [Line 15](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/blob/71db3c5d345548586e7f70ef7301134fb8cd905f/specification/datasets/cost_and_usage/columns/principalid.md#L15)

**Changed content:** `within the service provider`

**Rule:** `editorial-conventions-13` — Writing Specification Content & Review Guidelines > Editorial Conventions > Linking Rule; 13th indexed rule. “Link the first remaining occurrence in reading order.”

**Engineering context:** `service provider` is a defined FOCUS glossary term and this is its first non-heading occurrence in the file.

**Problem:** The occurrence is not linked using the required glossary-term format.

**Impact:** Readers lose required navigation to the precise FOCUS definition.

**Behavioral effect of the correction:** No schema or normative behavior change.

**Suggested correction:** Link the term to its glossary definition.

```suggestion
  * PrincipalId MUST be a unique identifier within the [*service provider*](#glossary:service-provider).
```

Reviewer 2: Keeping `service provider` plain in this bullet. It is the established form for this requirement class across the spec: ResourceId, CapacityReservationId, CommitmentDiscountId, ContractCommitmentId, ContractId, and the ContractApplied object properties all read "MUST be a unique identifier within the service provider" with no link. Across `specification/datasets/`, 28 files reference the term and one links it, in an introductory paragraph rather than a normative bullet.

`guidelines/contributors/normative-requirements-guidelines.md` uses the same unlinked form as the canonical pattern for this requirement class, under Column Requirement Standardized Terminology: "BillingAccountId MUST be a unique identifier within a service provider."

Linking it here would make PrincipalId the only column that does, so the fix belongs in one pass across every instance rather than on a single column. That is consistency review work, covering the normative bullets and the glossary entries together.

One note on the rule text quoted: AGENTS.md states the linking rule as "Link entity names and Glossary terms ONLY on their first occurrence per source file," which is what I applied.

> * PrincipalId documentation MUST include the use cases for which PrincipalId is provided.

Reviewer: ### F-003 — error — [Line 16](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/blob/71db3c5d345548586e7f70ef7301134fb8cd905f/specification/datasets/cost_and_usage/columns/principalid.md#L16)

**Changed content:** `PrincipalId documentation MUST include...`

**Rule:** `normative-language-requirements-12` — Writing Specification Content & Review Guidelines > Normative Language & Requirements > Allowed Subjects; 12th indexed rule. “MUST be schema-level entities”

**Engineering context:** A normative requirement’s subject identifies which schema artifact owns the obligation.

**Problem:** The subject is the documentation artifact rather than the `PrincipalId` schema entity.

**Impact:** Requirement ownership is ambiguous to implementers and requirements tooling.

**Behavioral effect of the correction:** No schema or normative behavior change.

**Suggested correction:** Make `PrincipalId` the subject and express documentation as a required property of it. Coordinate the full-line rewrite with the separate state-versus-behavior defect on this line.

Reviewer 2: Documentation is an allowed normative subject, so I am keeping it here. `guidelines/contributors/normative-requirements-guidelines.md`, under Allowed Subjects, opens with "The normative subject MUST be a schema-level entity or specific documentation" and lists `{Qualifier} documentation` as a valid form, with "FOCUS dataset delivery mechanism documentation" and "Data generator-calculated split cost allocation method documentation" as examples. The Disallowed Subjects note is explicit that a qualifier naming an actor or mechanism does not make the actor the subject.

Prior art follows the same shape: `InvoiceDetail documentation MUST specify how InvoiceDetail records correspond to invoice line items` in `specification/datasets/invoice_detail/dataset.md`, `Tag finalization documentation MUST adhere to the following requirements` in `tags.md`, and the DeliveryHandling attribute's documentation bullets.

`PrincipalId documentation` is that pattern with a column ID as the qualifier.

> * PrincipalId documentation MUST include the use cases for which PrincipalId is provided.

Reviewer: ### F-004 — error — [Line 16](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/blob/71db3c5d345548586e7f70ef7301134fb8cd905f/specification/datasets/cost_and_usage/columns/principalid.md#L16)

**Changed content:** `use cases for which PrincipalId is provided`

**Rule:** `normative-language-requirements-14` — Writing Specification Content & Review Guidelines > Normative Language & Requirements > State vs. Behavior; 14th indexed rule. “Describe a state, not behavior. Prohibited process verbs: … provide …”

**Engineering context:** Normative text must define a state that can be checked directly.

**Problem:** `is provided` uses a prohibited process verb and leaves unclear whether the obligation concerns applicability, column presence, or per-record population.

**Impact:** Implementers cannot derive one unambiguous conformance test.

**Behavioral effect of the correction:** Behavioral effect requires author clarification: applicability wording would not preserve a per-record population obligation if that was intended.

**Suggested correction:** Confirm that “provided” means applicability or coverage, then express that state without `provide`. Coordinate the full-line rewrite with the separate allowed-subject defect on this line.

Reviewer 2: The prohibited-verb rule targets the primary verb of the obligation, which here is "include". `guidelines/contributors/normative-requirements-guidelines.md` scopes it that way: "Process-oriented verbs (e.g., `ensure`, `handle`, `support`, `provide`) MUST NOT be used as the primary verb of the obligation", and the compliant example it gives is "Documentation for X MUST include Y". So "is provided" in the relative clause does not trip the rule.

Your ambiguity point does land, though. Column presence is already set by the CostAndUsage requirement gated on IncludesRequesterAttribution, and per-record population is already set by the nullability bullets above. What this requirement adds is the generator's coverage: which use cases actually resolve a principal. Saying that directly:

```suggestion
* PrincipalId documentation MUST include the use cases in which PrincipalId is not null.
```

That drops "provided", states one checkable condition, and matches the "conditions under which" form the DeliveryHandling documentation bullets use.

# Principal ID

> A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an authenticated system actor, service account, access role, or user that initiated the request to the service provider. The Principal ID is commonly used to audit which infrastructure credential authorized a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).

Author: ```suggestion
A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an authenticated system actor, service account, or user that initiated the request to the service provider. The Principal ID is commonly used to audit which infrastructure credential authorized a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).
```

> A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an authenticated system actor, service account, access role, or user that initiated the request to the infrastructure provider or service provider. The Principal ID is commonly used to audit which infrastructure credential authorized a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an authenticated system actor, service account, access role, or user that initiated the request to the service provider. The Principal ID is commonly used to audit which infrastructure credential authorized a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).
```

"Infrastructure provider" is novel terminology for FOCUS (existing entity terms are "service provider" and "host provider", both glossary-defined) and only appears once in this file. Standardizing on "service provider" matches the rest of the column requirements section, the glossary entry for `principal`, and the cross-reference to `ConsumerId`. The "infrastructure credential" usage in the second sentence is fine since it describes a credential type, not a new entity term.

> Principal ID works in conjunction with [Consumer ID](#datasets.costandusage.consumerid) to resolve asymmetric actor granularity.  While Principal ID captures the system actor that authorized the transaction with the provider, Consumer ID captures the logical downstream actor (such as an end-user or tenant) that ultimately utilized the service at the application layer.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Principal ID works in conjunction with [Consumer ID](#datasets.costandusage.consumerid) to resolve asymmetric actor granularity. While Principal ID captures the system actor that authorized the transaction with the provider, Consumer ID captures the logical downstream actor (such as an end-user or tenant) that ultimately utilized the service at the application layer.
```

Single space between "granularity." and "While" (currently two).

## Requirements

PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following requirements:

* PrincipalId MUST be of type String.
* PrincipalId MUST conform to [StringHandling](#attributes.stringhandling) requirements.
* PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following nullability requirements:
  * PrincipalId MUST be null when a [*charge*](#glossary:charge) is not attributed to a *principal* by the service provider.
  * PrincipalId MUST NOT be null when a *charge* is attributed to a *principal* by the service provider.
* When PrincipalId is not null, PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following requirements:
  * PrincipalId MUST be a unique identifier within the context of the service provider.

## Column ID

PrincipalId

## Display Name

Principal ID

## Description

> Identifier of the authenticated system actor or role that initiated the request to the service provider.

Author: ```suggestion
Identifier of the authenticated system actor that initiated the request to the service provider.
```

# Principal ID

> A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an authorized actor (e.g., user account, service account, application) that initiated a request for a [*resource*](#glossary:resource) or [*service*](#glossary:service).  The Principal ID is commonly used in auditing to determine which actor initiated a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).

Reviewer 2: Mirrors the tightened `Principal` glossary definition in the column intro so the two stay consistent (same TF-2 clarity request, AI #2483): the Principal ID identifies the initiating and authorizing actor, distinct from the downstream consumer or end-user. `consumer` is plain text for the same reason as the glossary edit (the `Consumer` term arrives with #2495).

```suggestion
A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an initiating or authorizing actor requesting [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service). The Principal can differ from the downstream consumer or end-user on whose behalf the request is made (e.g., a gateway or proxy role acting for many end-users behind it). The Principal ID is commonly used in auditing to determine which actor initiated a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).
```

> A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an initiating or authorizing actor requesting [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service). The Principal can differ from the downstream consumer or end-user on whose behalf the request is made (e.g., a gateway or proxy role acting for many end-users behind it). The Principal ID is commonly used in auditing to determine which actor initiated a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).

Reviewer 3: see [this comment](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/2360/files#r3509335662) for reasoning

```suggestion
A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an initiating or authorized actor requesting [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service). The Principal can differ from the downstream consumer or end-user on whose behalf the request is made (e.g., a gateway or proxy role acting for many end-users behind it). The Principal ID is commonly used in auditing to determine which actor initiated a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).
```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an actor that initiates or is authorized to request [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service). The Principal can differ from the downstream consumer or end-user on whose behalf the request is made (e.g., a gateway or proxy role acting for many end-users behind it). The Principal ID is commonly used in auditing to determine which actor initiated a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).
```

> > Note: While Principal ID is designed to capture opaque identifiers rather than plain-text names or email addresses, these values may still be classified as Personal Data or Personally Identifiable Information (PII) under privacy frameworks such as GDPR or CCPA (e.g., as pseudonymized data). Organizations need to separately ensure that the ingestion, storage, and processing of datasets containing this column comply with their internal data privacy, security, and retention policies.

Reviewer 4: AGENTS.md requires important notes to use bold blockquote format (`> **Note:**`); the unbolded form is reserved specifically for the "informative/non-normative section" boilerplate disclaimer, not for substantive notes like this PII caution.
```suggestion
> **Note:** While Principal ID is designed to capture opaque identifiers rather than plain-text names or email addresses, these values may still be classified as Personal Data or Personally Identifiable Information (PII) under privacy frameworks such as GDPR or CCPA (e.g., as pseudonymized data). Organizations need to separately ensure that the ingestion, storage, and processing of datasets containing this column comply with their internal data privacy, security, and retention policies.
```

## Requirements

PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following requirements:

* PrincipalId MUST be of type String.
* PrincipalId MUST conform to [StringHandling](#attributes.stringhandling) requirements.
* PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following nullability requirements:
  * PrincipalId MUST be null when a *charge* is not attributed to a *principal* by the service provider.

>   * PrincipalId MUST NOT be null when a *charge* is attributed to a *principal* by the service provider.

Reviewer 3: ### Concern

This reads as a tautology — PrincipalId is populated when a *charge* is attributed to a *principal* by the service provider. It effectively reads as `PrincipalId MUST NOT be null when it is not null`.

As written, there's no independent criterion for when a provider must attribute a charge to a principal; nullability is left entirely to the **provider's discretion**, which undermines the normative force of MUST/MUST NOT — neither can actually be violated, since "attribution" is defined as the very outcome the requirement is supposed to govern.

### Prior art

This differs structurally from similar patterns elsewhere in the spec:

* `CommitmentDiscountId` / `ResourceId` gate nullability on an objective, verifiable property of the *charge* itself ("charge is/is not related to a commitment discount/resource") — a relationship that either does or doesn't hold, independent of the provider's choice to report it.
* A Principal, however, conceptually exists behind virtually every request (per the glossary definition, every request has an initiating/authorized actor) — so "charge is/is not related to a principal" wouldn't work the same way here; the gating factor isn't whether the relationship exists, but whether the provider's systems can identify/determine it.

That's closer to the `HostProviderName` pattern, which gates nullability on determinability rather than relatedness:

> * HostProviderName MAY be NULL when the information about the entity providing the underlying infrastructure cannot be uniquely determined (e.g., when the ChargeCategory is "Tax" or "Adjustment").

```suggestion
* PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following nullability requirements:
  * PrincipalId MUST be null the service provider cannot determine the *principal* that initiated or authorized the *charge*.
  * PrincipalId MUST NOT be null when the service provider can determine the *principal* that initiated or authorized the *charge*.
```

Reviewer 5: I think the new line 14 should read more like: 

' * PrincipalId MUST be null **when** the service provider cannot determine the *principal* that initiated or authorized the *charge*. '

Reviewer 2: Applied. Gating on whether the provider can determine the *principal* gives nullability an independent criterion instead of restating the outcome, which resolves the tautology you flagged. I also added the missing `when` on the first bullet, per @davidearney's note, so both bullets read as proper conditionals. Kept your HostProviderName-style determinability framing here.

* When PrincipalId is not null, PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following requirements:

>   * PrincipalId MUST be a unique identifier within the context of the service provider.

Reviewer 4: Minor consistency nit: the sibling actor column (`ConsumerId`, being developed alongside this one) phrases the equivalent uniqueness bullet as "within the *service provider* context." This column's "within the context of the service provider" is a one-off variant of the same rule.
```suggestion
  * PrincipalId MUST be a unique identifier within the *service provider* context.
```

>   * PrincipalId MUST NOT contain plain-text personally identifiable information (PII) when the service provider supplies an alternative opaque identifier.

Reviewer 4: The current wording only forbids plain-text PII *when* an opaque alternative exists — leaving the "no alternative available" case unstated, which reads as tacit permission and contradicts this column's own stated design intent above ("designed to capture opaque identifiers rather than plain-text names"). Making both branches explicit removes the ambiguity without changing the policy that's already been agreed:
```suggestion
  * PrincipalId MUST NOT contain plain-text personally identifiable information (PII) when the service provider supplies an alternative opaque identifier.
  * PrincipalId MAY contain plain-text personally identifiable information (PII) when the service provider does not supply an alternative opaque identifier.
```

## Column ID

PrincipalId

## Display Name

Principal ID

## Description

> Identifier representing the authorized actor that initiated a request for a *resource* or *service*.

Reviewer 3: The description should also be consistent with the introduction and the glossary.

Reviewer 2: Done. The Description now mirrors the intro and glossary: all three read "the actor that initiates or is authorized to request." Thanks for keeping these aligned.

# Principal ID

> A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an actor that initiates or is authorized to request [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service). The Principal can differ from the downstream consumer or end-user on whose behalf the request is made (e.g., a gateway or proxy role acting for many end-users behind it). The Principal ID is commonly used in auditing to determine which actor initiated a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).

Reviewer 6: The ambiguity of "Principal can differ from the downstream consumer or end-user on whose behalf the request is made" feels scary. How would anyone be able to rely on this if you have to go to docs for every service to see what type/level of principal this maps to? And how would they specify the others? Even if we accept the others being missing today, how would we grow to support them in the future? Should we target a specific type/level to keep it open for others in the future?

Reviewer 6: 🤖 [AI][Claude] 💡 **For discussion** (in reply to the "which type/level of principal" concern above)

Grounding this against the identity/IAM meaning of *principal* (RFC 2904, NIST, and the cloud IAM models) offers a way out of the per-service-docs problem: a principal is the **authenticated identity the provider recorded at its own boundary** — not "whoever is upstream." So `PrincipalId` is deterministic without a per-service lookup: it's the credential the *billing provider* authenticated for the request, period.

That directly narrows the scary ambiguity. In a layered call (End user → Tool → Library → Service D), each hop may carry its own principal, but the provider billing the row (D) only ever sees and records the principal that authenticated **to D**. It can't attest to A/B/C, so it doesn't emit them. That's not a gap to grow into later — it's the correct boundary: a provider should only assert the identity it actually authenticated.

On "target a specific type/level to keep it open for others": I'd argue the level is already pinned by that boundary rule (the immediate authenticated caller), and the *type* (user / service account / API key / role) is what stays open — that's the natural extension point, and it lines up with @udam-stitcher's suggestion to let `Principal` carry a type alongside the ID rather than trying to encode level into the ID semantics. Net recommendation: drop "initiates *or is authorized to request*" (two different actors; only the authenticated caller is ever recorded) and anchor the definition on that single authenticated boundary identity.

Reviewer 2: We landed this at the Maintainers meeting on 2026-07-20: the column anchors on the standard identity and access management principal. The test we set is that a service provider reads the definition and can pick which of its own identifiers applies. Revised text:

A Principal ID is an identifier representing the principal: an entity defined in a service provider identity and access management model (e.g., user, role, service account) to which access to resources or services is granted. A principal is distinct from the credential (e.g., API key, access token) presented with an individual request, and the same principal may be associated with multiple credentials.

OpenAI lands on user ID, with the API key treated as a credential. Type, name, and email move to a companion details column in a separate PR. Both target 1.5.

Reviewer 2: The definition picked up a second exclusion after I quoted it:

> A *principal* is distinct from the credential (e.g., API key, access token) presented with an individual request, and from the organizational container (e.g., project, workspace) within which the request runs.

Without that clause, "entity to which access is granted" could be read as an OpenAI project or an Anthropic workspace. Those map to the account columns. It closes one more of the readings you flagged.

> A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an entity defined in a service provider identity and access management model (e.g., user, role, service account) to which access to [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service) is granted. A *principal* is distinct from the credential (e.g., API key, access token) presented with an individual request, and from the organizational container (e.g., project, workspace) within which the request runs. The same *principal* may be associated with multiple credentials. The Principal ID is commonly used in auditing to determine which *principal* is associated with a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).

Reviewer 7: Should the spec acknowledge that PrincipalId may represent an intermediary rather than the originating end user, and that principal-level tags are the mechanism for deeper attribution in those architectures? As an example - In many Bedrock deployments, calls route through shared intermediaries (API). The actual organizational attribution (which department, team, or application triggered the cost) comes through tags attached to that role or passed as session tags. AWS surfaces these as iamPrincipal/ prefixed columns(e.g., iamPrincipal/department, iamPrincipal/team) -- these are distinct from resource tags (Tags) and allocated resource tags (AllocatedTags).

Reviewer 2: Yes. `line_item_iam_principal` carries the caller ARN, so for a shared application role it names the role, not the person behind it: `arn:aws:sts::123456789012:assumed-role/application-role/session-name`. `PrincipalId` names the identity the provider authenticated. Where AWS goes deeper it uses the session name and tags, not a second identity column.

On the tags: CUR 2.0 does not add columns for these. It puts everything in one `tags` map and marks origin with a prefix: `resourceTags/`, `accountTag/`, `iamPrincipal/`, `userAttribute/`, `costCategory/`. FOCUS `Tags` already requires provider-defined keys to carry a documented prefix, so an AWS export can emit `iamPrincipal/department` today with no spec change.

What FOCUS cannot tell you is that a tag came from the principal rather than the resource. That is FR #1124, Karl's work. His `TagDetails` PR (#1904) was descoped from 1.4 in March and has not been picked back up. Your Bedrock case is a good argument for restarting it and worth raising with him. One wrinkle: #1124 frames tag origin as inheritance down the container chain, and a principal is not in that chain.

> > **Note:** While Principal ID is designed to capture opaque identifiers rather than plain-text names or email addresses, these values may still be classified as Personal Data or Personally Identifiable Information (PII) under privacy frameworks such as GDPR or CCPA (e.g., as pseudonymized data). Organizations need to separately ensure that the ingestion, storage, and processing of datasets containing this column comply with their internal data privacy, security, and retention policies.

Reviewer 6: nit: By the nature of this being an identifier, I believe it is absolutely PII if it refers to an individual. I like the callout, but would probably be more explicit so it's clear that this is absolutely PII. It makes me wonder if we need an option for providers to define whether this is PII or not based on their usage of it.

Reviewer 2: The Note understates it. An identifier that resolves to an individual is personal data under most frameworks, whichever form it takes. We agreed at the Maintainers meeting on 2026-07-20 to keep this PR to the definition, so the Note stands as written for now. This would be the first PII language in the spec, and the wording depends on the Linux Foundation legal consult from the 2026-05-11 Maintainers meeting, now tracked as #2555, which links back to this thread.

Reviewer 2: Closed at the Maintainers meeting on 2026-07-27, along the lines you argued. PII guidance moves to a dataset-level disclaimer covering applicable privacy regulations, including GDPR exposure on long-retention data. The Note stays here as interim guidance until that text lands with the identity details column in #2553.

Reviewer 6: 🤖 [AI][Claude] 💡 **For discussion**

Interim wording for the Note until the dataset-level PII disclaimer lands with #2553. Two problems with the current text: "designed to capture opaque identifiers" implies opaqueness is a PII exception (it isn't — pseudonymized data that resolves to an individual is personal data under GDPR Recital 26), and "may still be classified" understates it.

```suggestion
> **Note:** Principal ID contains personally identifiable information (PII) when the *principal* is an individual (e.g., a system-generated ID, a username, or an email). Such identifiers are personal data under privacy frameworks such as GDPR or CCPA when they can be resolved to an individual. Organizations need to separately ensure that the ingestion, storage, and processing of datasets containing this column comply with their internal data privacy, security, and retention policies.
```

States the PII plainly, drops the "opaque identifier" framing (which reads as a dodge that doesn't exist under the law), and keys on resolvability-to-an-individual rather than identifier form. Left as interim guidance for #2553 to inherit and expand at the dataset level.

> Principal ID works in conjunction with [Consumer ID](#datasets.costandusage.consumerid) to resolve asymmetric actor granularity. While Principal ID captures the authenticated actor that authorized the transaction with the provider, Consumer ID captures the logical downstream actor (e.g., end user, tenant) that ultimately utilized a [*resource*](#glossary:resource) or [*service*](#glossary:service) at the application layer. For scenarios demonstrating how these columns are populated across different technology categories, see [Examples: Actor Attribution](#appendix.examples:actorattribution).

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an authenticated and authorized actor (e.g., user account, service account, application) that initiated a request for a [*resource*](#glossary:resource) or [*service*](#glossary:service).  The Principal ID is commonly used in auditing to determine which actor initiated a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).

Principal ID is used in conjunction with [Consumer ID](#datasets.costandusage.consumerid) to resolve asymmetric actor granularity. While Principal ID represents the authenticated and authorized actor that initiated a request, Consumer ID represents the downstream actor that consumed the *resource* or *service*.

For scenarios demonstrating how these columns are populated across different technology categories, see [Examples: Actor Attribution](#appendix.examples:actorattribution).
```

## Requirements

PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following requirements:

* PrincipalId MUST be of type String.
* PrincipalId MUST conform to [StringHandling](#attributes.stringhandling) requirements.
* PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following nullability requirements:

>   * PrincipalId MUST be null when the service provider cannot determine the *principal* that initiated or authorized the *charge*.

Reviewer 6: Should we differentiate between "I don't have the ID" and "there is no principal"? I'm not sure how we'd do that, but that does feel like an inevitablility that we'll hit.

Reviewer 2: The bullets do collapse the two. The shape is not specific to this column: RegionId, ResourceId, and the other conditional dimensions all fold "not applicable" and "not available" into one null. TF-2 accepted the determinability phrasing here on 2026-07-08 on those grounds. Solving it in one column would put it out of step with the rest of the dataset, so I would rather file it cross-cutting. Want to take that, or shall I?

Reviewer 2: My precedent claim above does not hold. ResourceId and SubAccountId null out when the charge has no resource or no sub account, not when the provider lost the ID. RegionId is stricter still: MUST NOT be null when the resource sits in a distinct region. None of the three lets "I cannot determine it" produce a null.

PrincipalId breaks from them for a reason. A provider billing for a resource always knows the resource ID. A provider billing for an API call may not have recorded which principal made it. AWS only records it when you enable caller identity on the export, and only for Bedrock today. So the workable test here is whether the provider can determine it.

Your question still stands. Null covers both "no principal for this charge" and "there is one and I cannot see it," and those differ for a practitioner: one is complete data, the other is a coverage gap. That is the not-tagged versus not-taggable problem from FR #1124, which is why I would rather fix it once across columns than only here.

Reviewer 2: Filed as #2571 and I took it. Scoped across the conditional dimension columns rather than PrincipalId alone, since ResourceId, SubAccountId, and RegionId collapse the same two states, and tied to the not-tagged versus not-taggable work in FR #1124.

>   * PrincipalId MUST NOT be null when the service provider can determine the *principal* that initiated or authorized the *charge*.

Reviewer 6: 🤖 [AI][Claude] 💡 **For discussion**

These two bullets hinge on the principal that "initiated **or authorized** the *charge*," but a principal doesn't authorize a *charge* — it initiates *usage* or *a request*, and the charge is what results from that usage. "authorized the charge" reads as a third, separate meaning (approving an expense) that isn't the actor this column identifies, and it doesn't match the intro's framing either.

For a practitioner, the null/not-null decision is really: *did the provider record an initiating principal for the activity behind this charge?* Recommend dropping "or authorized" and tying nullability to the request/usage the charge derives from, so the verb here matches whatever the intro settles on (see the related note on line 3).

Reviewer 2: Agreed, a principal does not authorize a charge, and the verb no longer matches the revised definition. Both bullets now read "the principal associated with the charge." Keeping the can determine / cannot determine construction, which TF-2 accepted on 2026-07-08.

* When PrincipalId is not null, PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following requirements:

>   * PrincipalId MUST be a unique identifier within the *service provider* context.

Reviewer 6: nit: With the best intentions, this feels good. This could be unusable in hierarchical architectures where the service provider is n-levels deep and the practitioner won't have any way to map that ID back to the actor. An ID practitioners can't understand is effectively useless. I need to think more about this, but should we say anything about it being a publicly accessible ID? Not sure what the right answer is.

Reviewer 2: The value is an entity in the service provider access model, so it resolves in the directory your own organization administers rather than through per-service documentation. Multi-hop falls out by construction: a provider records the principal it granted access to and cannot attest to callers upstream of that. TF-2 also routed gateway header values to Tags on 2026-07-15.

>   * PrincipalId MUST NOT contain plain-text personally identifiable information (PII) when the service provider supplies an alternative opaque identifier.

Reviewer 6: GUIDs are PII. This isn't possible to meet given the intent is to identify a user. This probably needs to be more precise to target publicly-usable PII, like phone numbers and addresses (intentionally generic). This might be difficult without enumerating all known PII scenarios. Maybe that would be good to do, tho? 🤔

Reviewer 2: The bullet does not hold as written. A GUID identifying a user is personal data, so "plain-text PII" is not the line it implies, and enumerating direct identifiers would be a different requirement than the one there now. We agreed at the Maintainers meeting on 2026-07-20 to keep this PR to the definition, so this bullet stands unchanged. The rewrite depends on the Linux Foundation legal consult from the 2026-05-11 Maintainers meeting, now tracked as #2555, which links back to this thread.

Reviewer 2: Closed at the Maintainers meeting on 2026-07-27. Both plain-text PII bullets come out rather than getting more precise, so there is no list of PII scenarios to maintain. The guidance moves to the dataset-level disclaimer landing with the identity details column in #2553.

>   * PrincipalId MUST be a unique identifier within the service provider.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  * PrincipalId MUST be a unique identifier within the service provider.
* PrincipalId documentation MUST include the use cases for which PrincipalId is provided.
```

Your requirement, staged so it can be accepted on the call. Two deltas from your text worth a look.

Placement moved from the dataset to the column. `CostAndUsage` has no documentation block to join, while a column-level documentation requirement has precedent in [tags.md](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/blob/working_draft/specification/datasets/cost_and_usage/columns/tags.md) (`Tag finalization documentation MUST adhere to the following requirements:`) and [allocatedmethodid.md](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/blob/working_draft/specification/datasets/cost_and_usage/columns/allocatedmethodid.md). It also scales as Identity Details arrives, since each column documents its own coverage.

The trailing condition clause is dropped. PrincipalId is only present when the condition is true, so restating it inside the column repeats the dataset-level gate. Note the condition is now `IncludesIdentityAttribution`, so the original clause would need rewording either way.

Happy to move it to the dataset level instead if the group prefers one requirement covering every identity column.

>   * PrincipalId MUST be a unique identifier within the context of the service provider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
* PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following nullability requirements:
  * PrincipalId MUST be null when the [*service provider*](#glossary:service-provider) cannot associate a *charge* with a *principal*.
  * PrincipalId MUST NOT be null when the *service provider* can associate a *charge* with a *principal*.
* PrincipalId MUST be a unique identifier within the *service provider* context when PrincipalId is not null. 
```

Author: I don't love the "can" / "cannot" language.  Would prefer "does" / "does not".  Or even just simpler, way the way I had it before: "is" / "is not".  Why do you prefer "can" / "cannot"?

Reviewer 3: My preference for `can / cannot` is that it reads as a capability condition.

- `can / cannot associate` felt more precise to me because the nullability condition is intended to describe whether the service provider is capable of resolving the relationship between the charge and the principal at all.
- `does / does not associate` can be interpreted as choosing whether or not to expose/populate the relationship in the dataset even when having the capability to resolve it.

Honestly, this also makes me wonder whether PrincipalId should potentially be non-nullable, i.e. whether Scenario 4 (where the initiating actor cannot be identified) represents a realistic case.

Author: Discussed with @Matt-Cowsert and @ijurica.  There is a MUCH bigger discussion to be had about the nullability of this column, and whether we would want to consider breaking the FOCUS precedent of "if you have the grain, you provide the grain".  This column and others like it (e.g., Session ID, Execution ID) will potentially dramatically explode the cardinality of the dataset, and we will want to globally consider how and whether to facilitate that.

In the meantime, I have asked Matt to put this on the docket for discussion in May 20 TF-2.  I have already earmarked the larger discussion for May 26 Maintainers.

Reviewer 2: 🤖 [AI][Claude Code] Resolving in favor of keeping `PrincipalId` nullable. Not all services have a principal that the data generator publishes, so the column must allow nulls: null when a charge is not attributed to a principal, non-null when it is. The wording landed on "is / is not attributed" rather than "can / cannot," matching the FOCUS convention of describing state over capability.

The broader question, whether high-cardinality columns like this should break the "if you have the grain, you provide the grain" precedent, has been carved out to the dataset granularity configuration work (AI #2415, #2473), so `PrincipalId` here follows the standard conditional pattern.

## Column ID

PrincipalId

## Display Name

Principal ID

## Description

> Identifier of the authenticated actor that initiated the request to the service provider.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Identifier representing the authorized actor that initiated a request for a *resource* or *service*.
```

Author: Can we stick to just "authenticated" or "authorized"?

Reviewer 3: As mentioned [here](https://github.com/FinOps-Open-Cost-and-Usage-Spec/FOCUS_Spec/pull/2360#issuecomment-4443659690), it felt important to make explicit that, unlike the Consumer, the Principal is authenticated (identity verified) and authorized (permitted to act).

That said, I understand the preference for simplification. We could potentially assume that authorization in this model implies prior authentication/identification.

# Principal ID

> A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an entity defined in a service provider identity and access management model (e.g., user, role, service account) to which access to [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service) is granted. A *principal* is distinct from the credential (e.g., API key, access token) presented with an individual request, and from the organizational container (e.g., project, workspace) within which the request runs. The same *principal* may be associated with multiple credentials. The Principal ID is commonly used in auditing to determine which *principal* is associated with a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an entity defined in an identity and access management model (e.g., user, role, service account) to which access to [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service) is granted. A *principal* is distinct from the credential (e.g., API key, access token) presented with an individual request, and from the organizational container (e.g., project, workspace) within which the request runs. The same *principal* may be associated with multiple credentials. Principal ID is commonly used to report and audit cost by the *principal* that incurred a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).
```

> A Principal ID is an identifier representing the [*principal*](#glossary:principal): an entity defined in a service provider identity and access management model (e.g., user, role, service account) to which access to [*resources*](#glossary:resource) or [*services*](#glossary:service) is granted. A *principal* is distinct from the credential (e.g., API key, access token) presented with an individual request, and from the organizational container (e.g., project, workspace) within which the request runs. The same *principal* may be associated with multiple credentials. The Principal ID is commonly used in auditing to determine which *principal* is associated with a [*charge*](#glossary:charge).

Reviewer 2: ## Maintainers Action Item - 2026-08-10

PrincipalId and the principal glossary entry both define the principal as an entity in a service provider identity and access management model. Udam Dewaraja found that framing too narrow for two cases FOCUS needs to cover: a marketplace purchase, where the service provider is the marketplace rather than the vendor bought through it, and single sign-on, where the identity provider and the charged service differ. Dropping the service provider reference keeps the concept usable in both.

Matt Cowsert applied the same change to PR #2553 during the meeting, so the two PRs describe the concept differently until #2360 follows.

Udam Dewaraja also asked for descriptions on the actor attribution table rows. The table was written before CredentialId and CredentialDetails existed as named concepts, so a reader cannot tell what each row means or how the columns relate.

**Scope:**
- [x] Remove the service provider identity and access management framing from the PrincipalId description
- [x] Apply the same change to the principal glossary entry
- [x] Add row descriptions to the actor attribution table, including CredentialId

**Assignee:** @udam-stitcher

Reviewer 2: The third item is delivered, and the appendix has moved to #2553.

The request was made against a table of seven `PrincipalId` scenarios written before `CredentialId` existed as a named concept. Commit `7302caf8` rewrote it: thirteen scenarios covering both columns, an `Attribution Roles` section stating what each column answers, a prose paragraph per scenario naming the principal and the credential, a `Credential Type` column on the summary table, and a closing paragraph giving the distinct reasons `CredentialId` is null.

The file is now `specification/appendix/requester_attribution.md` on #2553, since it covers both identifier columns and `CredentialId` is defined there. @udam-stitcher, does that answer what you raised? If you want a one-line description per row on the summary table itself, say so and I will add it on #2553.

The first two items are applied here. The `PrincipalId` introduction and the `Principal` glossary entry both define the principal as an entity defined in an identity and access management model, with no service provider reference, so the definition holds for a marketplace purchase and for single sign-on.

For scenarios demonstrating how Principal ID is populated across different technology categories, see [Examples: Actor Attribution](#appendix.examples:actorattribution).

> > **Note:** Principal ID contains personally identifiable information (PII) when the *principal* is an individual (e.g., a system-generated ID, a username, or an email). Such identifiers are personal data under privacy frameworks such as GDPR or CCPA when they can be resolved to an individual. Organizations need to separately ensure that the ingestion, storage, and processing of datasets containing this column comply with their internal data privacy, security, and retention policies.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
```

Seems not needed since it will be at the dataset level

## Requirements

PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following requirements:

* PrincipalId MUST be of type String.
* PrincipalId MUST conform to [StringHandling](#attributes.stringhandling) requirements.
* PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following nullability requirements:
  * PrincipalId MUST be null when the service provider cannot determine the *principal* associated with the *charge*.

>   * PrincipalId MUST NOT be null when the service provider can determine the *principal* associated with the *charge*.

Reviewer 8: ```suggestion
  * PrincipalId MUST be null when a *charge* is not associated with a *principal*.
  * PrincipalId MUST NOT be null when a *charge* is associated with a *principal*.
```

For scenarios demonstrating how Principal ID is populated across different technology categories, see [Examples: Actor Attribution](#appendix.examples:actorattribution).

> **Note:** While Principal ID is designed to capture opaque identifiers rather than plain-text names or email addresses, these values may still be classified as Personal Data or Personally Identifiable Information (PII) under privacy frameworks such as GDPR or CCPA (e.g., as pseudonymized data). Organizations need to separately ensure that the ingestion, storage, and processing of datasets containing this column comply with their internal data privacy, security, and retention policies.

## Requirements

PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following requirements:

* PrincipalId MUST be of type String.
* PrincipalId MUST conform to [StringHandling](#attributes.stringhandling) requirements.

> * PrincipalId MUST adhere to the following nullability requirements:

Reviewer 3: Consider adding something like this to CostAndUsage dataset requirements.

This gives practitioners a documented, stable expectation of PrincipalId coverage, rather than it being an undocumented, provider-side, per-request decision.

> * CostAndUsage documentation MUST include the use cases for which PrincipalId is provided when the *operating model* includes principals.

Reviewer 2: The requirement landed at the column level rather than on the dataset. Whether one dataset-level requirement should cover every identity column instead is now in the PR description under Open Questions, for TF-2 to settle.
